#SMACSS and Responsive Web Design

**Oh the joys of CSS **Responsive Web Design or RWD is the practice of making webpages exactly what it sounds like...responsive. Responsive to what? Well, responsive to the size of of the viewport. What is a viewport. Oh boy, here we go. Well, that's the viewable area of your browser on your device where the content will display. Making a site responsive is done so that the site views smoothly and as you intend on different sized viewports, displays/devices.

This is achieved through a couple of techniques. Relative sizing, grids, and media queries. Grids are areas with determined spacing on the page, so that content placed within them only take up the space allowed by that section...thus resizing or forcing content below when the screen size is made to be smaller or being viewed on a smaller device. Relative sizing is kinda like that in the sense that you are setting a container size, then the elements within are sized relative to that parent container, so that it never takes up any more than that size, relatively. So, if you divide the width of the target element by the width of the parent element. That will give you a percentage that will ensure your target element (such as an image) will never be to big, but will also scale down.

**Media queries** Oh here we go again. These are little bits that will set rules in CSS pertaining to a set of parameters that you declare. These parameters will be things like the size of the display, orientation, etc. So, you can set different display rules for different displays for reasons such as: loading speed, size, background doesn't look good on small screens, spacing, etc.

**Floats** Oh, how I loath the hiccups that come along with floats. The intention of floats is to provide a way for text to flow around images and other content. It does that...but in web layouts, it can cause issues from collapsing divs, to pushing and shoving that creates some really nasty results. Luckily there are simple fixes for the simple issues. There are less simple ones for the less simple issues. Then, of those solutions, there are different schools of thought on what should and should not be done, even if it works. Enjoy floats.